---
layout: post
title: "Pro Tips"
---

I've used tiling window managers and lived the no mouse lifestyle, so I'm writing down the tips and tricks I picked up along the way for posterity.

# Text Navigation

- **Tab**: Naviagtes you through a lot of apps interface objects and areas. Sometimes space works in place of enter, saving your pinky (and using your likley tougher thumb)
- **<navigate>** + Shift: Usally goes backwards
- **Ctl + Left/Right arrow**: Naviage over 'objects'. In text this is often words with a common demiliting character (space, comma, slahses). But it holds in other applications also (Excel cells that are grouped)
- **Up/Down in a single line input box to move to the begining or end**: This works well when inputting text into forms.
- **Ctl + Alt + Up/Down for collumn mode**: I first ran into this in VSCode, but most any text editor now days has it enabled.
- **Hold Shift to select text**: Combied with other commands, it makes editing text a lot easier
- **Ctl + Shift + Home/End**: An example combination to highlight to the beginning or end of a field/doc, not just the line

# Web Browser

- **Alt + D**: Focus address bar
- **Ctl + t/w**: Open a new tab, close the current tab
- **Ctl + Shift t/n**: Restore last closed tab/window
- DuckDuckGo bangs: Makes it a lot easier to just use the sites you want. Also pseudo bookmarks if the site you're using is specific i.e. "! local credit union" to get straight there.
- **Ctl + Tab**: Cycle tabs, combine with shift to go back
- **Ctl + Number**: Got to a tab number, zero goes to the last tab.
- **Ctl + Shift + Page Up/Down**: Move the current tab

# Windows Specific
- **Win + Shift + S**: Screenshot mode
- **Win + E**: Opens Windows Explorer
- **Win + R**: Run window
- **Win + Left/Right**: Snap the window to the screen to title
- **Win + Alt + Left/Right**: Move a window to the isplay in that diraction
- **Win + Up/Down**: Minimize or maximize a window

# Command Line
- **alt-f**: right one word
- **alt-b**: left one word
- **ctl a**: begging of the line
- **ctl e**: end of the line
- **ctl k**: delete to end of line
- **ctl r**: reverse history
- **ctl x**: open command in editor
- **ctl e**: TBD(?)